# Contributing

## Project setup

1. Have a proper [Flutter development environment](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install) ready.
2. Install [Melos](https://melos.invertase.dev/~melos-latest/getting-started)


## Development

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `melos bootstrap` to setup the project and the local package overrides
3. Open the root of the project in Visual Studio / Android Studio to start development
4. The project contains the `flutter_theolive_sdk/example` folder that can be used during development.
5. Use `main.dart` to run the project

### Pigeon
The project uses pigeons for type-safe communication between Flutter and the native mobile platforms.

Pigeon doesn't support splitting your code into multiple files, so we added a `build_runner` script to help the code stay more readable.

To add new communication interfaces:

1. Modify `flutter_theolive_sdk_platform_interface/pigeons` files. (**NOTE**: `pigeons_merged.dart` is autogenerated, don't modify it.)
2. Run `dart run build_runner build --delete-conflicting-outputs` in `flutter_theolive_sdk_platform_interface` folder to generate the final (merged) pigeon file
   and subsequently to generate the platform-specific bindings based on the merged `pigeons_merged.dart` file.
3. Implement the new APIs on the Flutter and native side.

## Pull-requests
Before making a pull-request, please make sure:

1. The code has no Dart issues. Run `dart analyze` and fix the problem.
2. The code has no formatting issues. Run `dart format -l 200`. We don't enforce the 80 character limit by the dart formatter (and pub.dev). It makes the code quite unreadable in some cases. (Hopefully pub.dev fixes this at some point)
